index.md, before:

# CABW 2018 R training

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a language for statistical computing as well as a general purpose programming language. Increasingly, it has become one of the primary languages used in data science and for data analysis across many of the natural sciences. This workshop will provide attendees with the foundations for continued learning of R and for analysis of a range of data types. 

## Course objectives

By the end of this course you should be able to or have the resources to find out how to:

* Use R to import and organize bioassessment data 

* Create plots using R packages to explore data trends

* Create maps in R to explore spatial patterns and generate reports

## Agenda

* __1 - 2pm__: Using R with bioassessment data: what, why, and how

* __2 - 3pm__: Wrangling and plotting bioassessment data for exploratory analysis

* __3 - 4pm__: Mapping bioassessment data for exploratory analysis

* __4 - 5pm__: Mapping bioassessment data for reporting

## Instructors

* [Marcus Beck](https://fawda123.github.io/CV/Beck_CV.pdf) ([marcusb@sccwrp.org](mailto:marcusb@sccwrp.org)) - Marcus is a scientist with the Southern California Coastal Water Research Project.  His interests include time series analysis of water quality data, lake bioassessment, and data visualization.  
* [Ryan Peek](https://ryanpeek.github.io/) ([rapeek@ucdavis.edu](mailto:rapeek@ucdavis.edu)) - Ryan is a doctoral candidate at UC Davis and a resercher at the Center for Watershed Sciences. 

## Software requirements

Please bring a laptop with the latest version of RStudio and R installed.  The [setup instructions](setup.html) will guide you through the process.  Take note of the required R packages that you must also download and install.

## Source content

All source materials for this website can be accessed at https://github.com/SCCWRP/CABW_R_training

Commit message:

added data download link to index

index.md, after:

# CABW 2018 R training

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a language for statistical computing as well as a general purpose programming language. Increasingly, it has become one of the primary languages used in data science and for data analysis across many of the natural sciences. This workshop will provide attendees with the foundations for continued learning of R and for analysis of a range of data types. 

## Course objectives

By the end of this course you should be able to or have the resources to find out how to:

* Use R to import and organize bioassessment data 

* Create plots using R packages to explore data trends

* Create maps in R to explore spatial patterns and generate reports

## Agenda

* __1 - 2pm__: Using R with bioassessment data: what, why, and how

* __2 - 3pm__: Wrangling and plotting bioassessment data for exploratory analysis

* __3 - 4pm__: Mapping bioassessment data for exploratory analysis

* __4 - 5pm__: Mapping bioassessment data for reporting

## Instructors

* [Marcus Beck](https://fawda123.github.io/CV/Beck_CV.pdf) ([marcusb@sccwrp.org](mailto:marcusb@sccwrp.org)) - Marcus is a scientist with the Southern California Coastal Water Research Project.  His interests include time series analysis of water quality data, lake bioassessment, and data visualization.  
* [Ryan Peek](https://ryanpeek.github.io/) ([rapeek@ucdavis.edu](mailto:rapeek@ucdavis.edu)) - Ryan is a doctoral candidate at UC Davis and a resercher at the Center for Watershed Sciences. 

## Software requirements

Please bring a laptop with the latest version of RStudio and R installed.  Download the compressed [data](https://SCCWRP.github.io/CABW2018_R_training/data/datazip.zip) folder and make sure it is accessible on your computer.  The [setup instructions](setup.html) will guide you through the rest of the process.  Take note of the required R packages that you must also download and install.  Please contact the instructors with any questions or issues related to setup.

## Source content

All source materials for this website can be accessed at https://github.com/SCCWRP/CABW_R_training
